# SIO-DSS

## Generic Decision Support System for a Company using SAF-T PT Files

### Applied in the context of fictional company 2Life IT

## Installation Instructions

- Install XAMPP (Windows/macOS) or a similar PHP+MySQL/MariaDB distribution (Windows,macOS,Linux). PHP 8.1 is required,
  so a necessary PHP 8.1 distribution is required.
- Create a MySQL database with the database name `sio_dss` on phpmyadmin `CREATE DATABASE sio_dss`. Any database name or
  user is fine, make sure to adjust it by
  copying `.env.example` to `.env` and adjust the database variables.
- Install Composer
- Install Node.JS with NPM
- Clone this repository
- Change directory to the repository
- Run `npm run production` or `npm run watch` if you're in a development environment
- Run `php artisan migrate`
- Run `composer install` and `composer update`, and follow GitHub prompts if needed (for external SAF-T Library)
- Run `php artisan key:generate`
- Run `php artisan serve`
- Open your browser in `127.0.0.1:8000/register` to create a user and then in `127.0.0.1:8000/login` to log in that
  user.

## Workflow

- On the navigation bar, click on the "Upload SAF-T" button and upload a valid SAF-T PT file.
- After the company is created (or updated with new invoices/customers/products present on the SAF-T file), click on
  the "Companies" button.
- On the "Companies" menu, select or search for the company to query information about.
- On the Company menu, there are multiple tabs:
    - "Dashboard", where multiple statistics and graphs are present to help upper management make decisions about the
      business and operations
    - "Invoices", where all the invoices for the company may be queried and viewed (in a specific invoice page all the
      details pertaining to it may be viewed, including its lines). On the table, the customer associated with the
      Invoice is clickable.
    - "Products", where all the products of the company may be queried (by its description, code and family) and viewed,
      with the number of invoices its present in (not units transacted) and the sum of sales on all invoices present in
      the company.
    - "Customers", where all the customers of the company may be queried (by tax ID, Name, Phone or E-Mail) and viewed,
      with the number of invoices generated by that customer and sum of invoicing generated by that customer. The
      customer may be further queried in its own page and alongside with all its details, all the invoices pertaining to
      it may be viewed.
    - "Company Details", where all the details of the company may be viewed, and the company may be deleted (alongside
      with all its invoices, products and customers).
